README.rst, before:

=======
 daily
=======
Hello and welcome to daily, a program for command-line journaling. Each
journal entry is stored in a file named after the date in YYY-mm-dd format
in either MD or RST format.

Entries have a title named after the date, a desription, headings, and
metadata all built in to the text. Here is a simple example in markdown.

::

    # 2022-10-10, Mon
    I went to my daughter's play.

    ## Workout
    And did like a gazillion pushups.


    <!--- attributes --->
        ---
        id: some-internal-id
        tags: []

And an example in RST.

::

    =================
     2022-10-10, Mon
    =================
    This semester in college is really starting to grind.

    Todo
    ====
    - 8am Calculus class.
    - 9am Workout

    
    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        ---
        id: some-internal-id
        tags: []

Usage with Vimwiki 
===================
Modify daily.ini (installed in ``~/.config/daily`` after a first run) to change
the journal's directory to your vimwiki diary, and set the format to "md".

Also install the ``generate-vimwiki-diary-template`` file to your ~/.vim/bin
directory. This will make it so vim auto-generates daily's entry text for new
markdown files in the vimwiki diary directory.

Usage
=====
Usage is detailed in the man pages under ``./doc/man``. Start with ``daily.1``,
but a general quick start cookbook...

::

    daily  # Perform first-time setup
    daily add  # Edit today's entry.
    daily show  # Show previous 2 weeks of entries
    daily add -d yesterday  # Add or edit an entry on a specific date.
    daily add --before today  # Batch edit any entries before today
    daily show workout todo  # Show only specific headings for entries
    daily add workout  # Edit specific headings for an entry.

    daily upcoming  # Print next 2 weeks of todos

Required packages for a developer
=================================
The machine used to develop this software was running Ubuntu 20.04. The
following packages are needed to build, develop, and package releases on
this operating system.

::

    python3-venv python3-pip dh-python docutils-common

Maintenance and versioning
==========================
Update the CHANGELOG when cutting a new release, then create and push a git tag
named after the new version. This project's packaging script and setup.py will
automatically determine the version based on git-describe.

Daily uses `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`_. Update the major
number if a breaking change is introduced with respect to the command-line
interface or expected entry format. Minor number for backwards-compatible
feature additions, and patch number for bugfixes or optimizations.

Building and installation
=========================
Install the pybuild deb in ``utils/`` before attempting to package this program
for debian. pybuild versions > 5.0 will not work, so an older version has been
archived in this repo.

Use the ``package.bash`` script to create packages. It can package the software
as a python wheel, deb, rpm, or simply a gz archive with the respective
commands.

::

    ./package.bash python
    ./package.bash deb
    ./package.bash rpm
    ./package.bash gz

    # Clean the directory.
    ./package.bash clean

Alternatively just clone this repo use pip to install to a virtual environment.

Testing and developer usage
===========================
Run these commands to install daily to a virtual environment.

::

    python3 -m venv ./venv
    . ./venv/bin/activate
    python3 ./setup.py
    pip3 install -e .
    daily

Use the following command to run unit tests.

::

    python3 -m unittest

Known issues
------------
Daily generally works as expected. That said, there are a few bugs. These
shouldn't be a problem unless the user intentionally feeds bad input, but
nonetheless...

- General robustness with bad input and better error messages.

Commit message:

DAILY_16: Removed debian packaging support.
Packaging for debian was too complicated, especially when compared to
just using `pip3 --user`

I'll just tag and push those to the source repo. Clone and pip is the
current installation method.

Also fixes the installation dirs of the data files to relative pathing.
This will require the user to properly set up their bash autocomplete
and MANPATH environment variables.

README.rst, after:

=======
 daily
=======
Hello and welcome to daily, a program for command-line journaling. Each
journal entry is stored in a file named after the date in YYY-mm-dd format
in either MD or RST format.

Entries have a title named after the date, a desription, headings, and
metadata all built in to the text. Here is a simple example in markdown.

::

    # 2022-10-10, Mon
    I went to my daughter's play.

    ## Workout
    And did like a gazillion pushups.


    <!--- attributes --->
        ---
        id: some-internal-id
        tags: []

And an example in RST.

::

    =================
     2022-10-10, Mon
    =================
    This semester in college is really starting to grind.

    Todo
    ====
    - 8am Calculus class.
    - 9am Workout

    
    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        ---
        id: some-internal-id
        tags: []

Usage with Vimwiki 
===================
Modify daily.ini (installed in ``~/.config/daily`` after a first run) to change
the journal's directory to your vimwiki diary, and be sure the format is "md".

Also install the ``generate-vimwiki-diary-template`` file to your ~/.vim/bin
directory. This will make it so vim auto-generates daily's entry text for new
markdown files in the vimwiki diary directory. This must be done manually.

Usage
=====
Usage is detailed in the man pages under ``./doc/man``. Start with ``daily.1``,
but a general quick start cookbook...

::

    daily  # Perform first-time setup
    daily add  # Edit today's entry.
    daily show  # Show previous 2 weeks of entries
    daily add -d yesterday  # Add or edit an entry on a specific date.
    daily add --before today  # Batch edit any entries before today
    daily show workout todo  # Show only specific headings for entries
    daily add workout  # Edit specific headings for an entry.

    daily upcoming  # Print next 2 weeks of todos

Required packages for a developer
=================================
The machine used to develop this software was running Ubuntu 20.04. The
following packages are needed to build, develop, and package releases on
this operating system.

::

    python3-venv python3-pip dh-python docutils-common

Maintenance and versioning
==========================
Update the CHANGELOG when cutting a new release, then create and push a git tag
named after the new version. This project's packaging script and setup.py will
automatically determine the version based on git-describe.

Daily uses `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`_. Update the major
number if a breaking change is introduced with respect to the command-line
interface or expected entry format. Minor number for backwards-compatible
feature additions, and patch number for bugfixes or optimizations.

Building and installation
=========================
Clone this repo, checkout a release tag, and run these commands.

::

    ./package.bash python3
    pip3 install --user .
    ./package.bash clean

The ``package.bash`` script can also package the software as a python wheel or
a gz archive with the respective commands.

The man pages will be installed at ``$HOME/.local/usr/share/man``
and the bash completion script will be installed at
``$HOME/.local/etc/bash_completion.d/daily_completion.sh``. Update your bashrc.

Testing and developer usage
===========================
Run these commands to install daily to a virtual environment.

::

    python3 -m venv ./venv
    . ./venv/bin/activate
    python3 ./setup.py
    pip3 install -e .
    daily

Use the following command to run unit tests.

::

    python3 -m unittest

Known issues
------------
Daily generally works as expected. That said, there are a few bugs. These
shouldn't be a problem unless the user intentionally feeds bad input, but
nonetheless...

- General robustness with bad input and better error messages.
